Israeli strikes have hit the
headquarters of the Palestinian red
cresant in Gaza thousands were
Sheltering there some of the injured
have been transported to hospitals and
carts pulled by donkeys because there
aren't enough
ambulances nebal farak is the media and
Communications officer of the Palestine
red Cresent society and she's joining us
live from rala in the occupied West Bank
thank you very much for your time
firstly tell us about this attack and
the damage the injury it's
caused good evening thanks for having
me this morning the paltin red crescent
was targeted with an artillery shelling
the upper floors and unfortunately it
has led to a number of injuries among
the internally displaced people were
taken shelter inside our facility and it
has led also to the damage of the only
communication uh tool for our ambulances
which is the VHF waves which is the only
communication available for the
ambulance teams to communicate with each
others since there is a communication
back out in the area of hunis and this
is absolutely is hindering the work of
our ambulances in Gaza are your
ambulances able to communicate with each
other
now unfortunately um the damage of the
VHF system um has resulted in difficulty
uh and communicating with each others uh
they are now facing the great
difficulties it it wasn't completely
damaged but partially damaged which
absolutely hindering their work in
communicating with each others and this
is obviously it's not the first attack
against the Palestine red crescent we
have already our Hospital in h in in in
Gaza City Al's Hospital have been also
damaged because uh of Israeli targeting
and miss fak you are an aid organization
one of the most well-known in the world
has Israel communicated anything with
you about this
attack unfortunately up to this moment
the Palestine red presentent had lost
four colleagues paramedic while they
were on duty and another 28 paramedics
were injured while they were trying to
save lives every single day when our
colleague goes in a mission to save
people lives while they are trying to
evacuate the wounded and injured people
from the location another air strike
another bombardment happened in the area
which put the lives of our colleagues in
danger this is the the conditions that
we are working under is just impossible
and it's extremely dangerous for any
humanitarian or paramedic to work under
and this is absolutely is passing
significant ch challenges for our
ambulance teams to deliver and arrive
for those who are in critical need for
our medical services and it also
hindering the work of um humanitarian
agencies and uh us as well to deliver
Aid to the people who are in desperate
need of it since the beginning of the
escalation not only the bombardment is
happening everywhere H in Gaza but also
people are completely denied access to
food and the drink water and Miss Fara
what is the aid situation in Gaza now
what role does the red Cresent play in
its distribution and have you been
receiving any more since that un recent
UN resolution calling for more Aid to
enter the
strip
unforunately up to any impact of the UN
resolution on the delivery uh of Aid
yesterday for example we have received
around 68 truck through Rafa Crossing
border and since the beginning of the
war uh until December 22nd the Palestine
red Cresent have received around
4,768 trucks through Rafa Crossing
border loaded with food
water items Medical Supply this is
simply doesn't scratch the surface it
doesn't meet 10% of the need the
humanitarian suffering on the ground is
just unprecedented with the entire
population hungry they they are lacking
food drinking water as well as medicine
over
,000 children now at the risk of
hydration starvation anemia as well as
um the infectuous diseases and many
other diseases because they are
completely overcrowded in these shelters
50,000 women are in shelters lacking
food water Medical Care as well and
unfortunately 180 pregnant women give
birth every single day with uh inhuman
and dangerous conditions yeah absolutely
that is the BAL farak of the Palestinian
red cresant Society joining us live from
ramala thank you very much for your time
on this we really appreciate
it